[[automatic-clustering]]
Automatic Clustering
--------------------

This section details how the Payara Micro automatic clustering works.

The integration of Hazelcast into Payara Micro allows instances to
automatically, and dynamically, cluster together. When two instances are
pointed at the same multicast address and port, they will automatically
cluster together.

You can see evidence of the automatic clustering by simply starting two
instances (with different HTTP port configurations), and you should see
the following in the log output:

------------------------------------------
Members [2] {
        Member [192.168.174.130]:5900 this
        Member [192.168.174.130]:5901
------------------------------------------

The `--startPort` option is used to determine which port the Payara
Micro instance will *first* try to bind to, if the port is already bound
to (say, by another Payara Micro instance), then the Payara Micro
instance will simply increment the _startPort_ value and try again until
it finds a port it can bind to.

For example, if there are already two Payara Micro instances running,
which have bound ports 5900 and 5901, then a third instance started with
a _startPort_ value of 5900 will first try to bind to 5900, then to
5901, then finally settle on 5902.

If you wish to have multiple clusters, then you can make use of the
`--mcAddress` and ``mcPort` options to define a different multicast
address and port; assign a different address and port to each set of
instances you wish to operate in a separate cluster and they will
automatically make their own cluster on the new multicast address and
port. You can also use `--clusterName` and `--clusterPassword` to
segregate clusters.

[[lite-cluster-members]]
Lite Cluster Members
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you specify on the command line or through the API that a Payara
Micro instance is a lite instance. Then the Payara Micro instance will
join the cluster but will not store any clustered data, for example web
session data or JCache data. This is very useful for a number of
scenarios;

You can create a cluster topology whereby a web application is hosted in
a number of payara micro instances and the garbage collection ergonomics
for these instances are tuned for throughput, in addition a number of
payara micro instances are also in the cluster with no applications
deployed and these instances are tuned for long lived web session data.
In this case the web application instances could be designated as lite
cluster members to ensure no web session data is stored within their
JVMs.

Lite members can also be used purely if you want a clustered payara
micro instance to join the same cluster and receive CDI events or
clustered events but without storing any data.

[[preventing-cluster-cross-talk]]
Preventing Cluster Cross Talk
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default Payara Micro clusters automatically discover other cluster
members via multicast. This can lead to the situation whereby different
development environments being used by different teams cluster together
as they are using the same multicast address and multicast port. This
can lead to confusing errors. To prevent cluster cross-talk ensure that
the multicast-address and muticast-port are set to different values on
each unique cluster. In the case where this is not possible payara micro
provides the capability to set a cluster name and a cluster password
both through the command line or through the api. If all the multicast
settings are similar, instances will only cluster together if all the
instances have the same cluster name and cluster password.

[[clustering-with-payara-server]]
Clustering with Payara Server
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Payara Micro can cluster with Payara Server and share web session and
JCache data. To cluster with Payara Server just start up a Payara Micro
instance with the same multicast address, multicast port, cluster name
and cluster password as configured in your Payara Server.
